# Capstone-Project
Predicting The Next Recession

One of my hobbies is flying, and most of us pilots are morbidly obsessed with the TV show “Mayday: Air Crash Investigation” which explores notable air crashes. Mayday’s methodology is to reconstruct the sequence of events leading up to each disaster. In my day job as a professional in finance and data science, delving into major financial crashes has also yielded a surprising result — financial crashes happen in a similar, predictable way where the sequence of events leading to a crash are known.

Michael Kantrowitz, the Chief Investment Strategist for Piper Sandler has done a lot of work on this. He happened upon the same realization and articulated the process in his excellent “HOPE” framework. HOPE is an acronym describing the sequence in which economic activity weakens due to a FED tightening cycle before a recession. Michael’s HOPE model consists of Housing, New Orders, Corporate Profits, and Employment. Economically speaking, the HOPE framework is driven by the realization that the most interest rate sensitive sectors are the first to feel the effects of tightening monetary policy. These sectors often act as leading economic indicators. Consequently, as tightening monetary policy slows down economic activity in interest rate sensitive sectors, other sectors of the economy start to feel the impact of higher rates. HOPE sequences the lags between rate hikes and their effect on economic activity for each sector.

What I've done for my Capstone Project is find data sources within the FRED API that approximates the HOPE model.  Namely Residential Building Permits, Percent Change in HPI, Inventory, Retail Sales, Yield Curve and Unemployment Figures.  We utilized Python with Numpy, Pandas, ScikitLearn StandardScalar and LinearSVC, ScikitLearn Pipeline and K-Fold Cross Validation.
